Apu, in Quechua, means "lord." The Apu Rimac is the "Oracle or Great Speaker," considered the most powerful of the Incas oracles which spoke through tremendous river rapids. 

The Apurimac River goes down violently from 5000 meters, to a gigantic gorge, forming one of the most impressive spectacles of nature. 

The deep gorge in Abancay-Cusco route, is one of the places that has a favorite location from which you can observed its beautiful landscapes. 

This gift of God in Peruvian territory has its most distant source in the Snowy Misti (5,597 m), located in the territory of the district of Madrigal, Cayllomaprovince, department of Arequipa. It flows northwest into the Ene, Tambo, Ucayali, Marañón, Amazon River to the Atlantic. It covers the regions of Arequipa, Cusco, Ayacucho and Apurimac.



Raft down the Sacred Inca River of Apurimac (talkative God), the furthest water source of the Amazon River, and be challenged by the exiting class IV-V rapids through impressive canyons.

 

There are no large settlements along the bank of the Apurimac. The river's course offers nothing much but nature, but what nature!

From the lofty heights of its source where it begins its journey through pastoral valleys until it starts its meanderings through the depths of the jungle, the Apurimac cuts through wild gorges and canyons, the almost inaccessible cliffs and gigantic walls that reach toward the peaks of the Cordillera Vilcabamba at more than 13,200 feet.

Country          Peru

Duration        3 Days/ 2 Nights

Dates             Trips run from May to November

Rating            Demanding. Class V

Price               Consult



Day 1: CUZCO/APURIMAC RIVER


We travel on a private bus to our put-in, Huallpachaca Bridge (1,700 feet), the journey
is impressive driving through dramatic Andean landscape and Andean villages. We
reach the Apurimac river at midday to have our lunch and proceed to prepare our
rafting gear. We will be floating for 2 hours, doing class II and III rapids. Camp by
shore. (BLD)


Day 2: APURIMAC RIVER
After breakfast, guides will give an orientation
briefing before we start our exiting adventure
through this spectacular canyon. Adrenalin pumping
day, as we start with the big rapids. This impressive
canyon with towering cliffs and big boulders let the
Clearwater run forming the legendary rapids as "Z",
"Laberinto", "Dolor de Muelas", all of them class V.
After an exciting day we camp at a relaxing sandy
beach. (BLD)



Day 3: APURIMAC RIVER/CUZCO
On our final morning on the river we descend the
class IV-V famous rapids of "Ultima Sonrisa" and
"Babalua Carajo!". The canyon opens up and we
reach our take out point where a vehicle will be
waiting to return back to Cuzco. Overnight in hotel.
(BL )



INCLUDES:
All transfers on scheduled, arrival and
departure days
All meals (as indicated) B: Breakfast
L: Lunch D: Dinner
Rafting and camping equipment
Tents
Professional Guides
Safety Kayaks




NOT INCLUDED:
Internacional Airfare
Airport taxes
Sleeping bag and pad
Personal expenses
Personal gear
Gratuities for guides
Hotel