Colca
The canyon was formed by a massive geological fault between the two enormous volcanoes of Coropuna (6425m) and Ampato (6318m), eroded by thousands of years by the longest river in the Peruvian coast. The Colca River reaches depths of up to 3.400 meters in both slopes and over 200 km long and forms part of a gigantic watershed that empties into the Pacific.



Colca Canyon is one of the deepest canyons in the world, located in southern Peru. It is renowned for its breathtaking landscapes, traditional villages, and as a habitat for the Andean condor, a majestic bird with a wingspan of up to 3 meters. The canyon is a popular destination for trekking, cultural tourism, and birdwatching. Visitors can also explore pre-Inca terraces still used for agriculture and enjoy hot springs in the surrounding area.



Colca River
﻿

Lovers of wild and magnificent nature should not miss a chance to get to know the Lunar Canyon of the Colca and its neighboring regions. The canyon itself, with walls that reach at least 4ooo meters above the level of the river on one side and more than 3ooo m on the other, is incomparable. It is the deepest known canyon in the world.

 

From its crystalline waters, the walls often open to vistas of towering snow peaks. The "Cruz del Condor", at the foot of Mt.Mismi, from whose north slope flows the Apurimac River and thus the Amazon, and the "Chocolate Canyon", are of unimaginable gigantic proportions.

 

For canoeists, the Colca is beyond compare, The technical difficulties at times are almost insurmountable and put even the most skilful to the test. They are compensated by the adventure and excitement of running a river devoid of all vegetation, accompanied by otters and black salmon in the waters and condors in the skies, surrounded by lunar landscapes and figures carved by erosion into the rocks and volcanic lava, and the colours of the walls with their intermixed geological strata. It is one of the most beautiful, the most thrilling, the most interesting rivers of the world.

Country          Peru

Duration        11 Days/ 10 Nights

Dates              Trips run from April to November

Rating             Demanding. Class V

Price                $4444


Colca River
﻿

Lovers of wild and magnificent nature should not miss a chance to get to know the Lunar Canyon of the Colca and its neighboring regions. The canyon itself, with walls that reach at least 4ooo meters above the level of the river on one side and more than 3ooo m on the other, is incomparable. It is the deepest known canyon in the world.

 

From its crystalline waters, the walls often open to vistas of towering snow peaks. The "Cruz del Condor", at the foot of Mt.Mismi, from whose north slope flows the Apurimac River and thus the Amazon, and the "Chocolate Canyon", are of unimaginable gigantic proportions.

 

For canoeists, the Colca is beyond compare, The technical difficulties at times are almost insurmountable and put even the most skilful to the test. They are compensated by the adventure and excitement of running a river devoid of all vegetation, accompanied by otters and black salmon in the waters and condors in the skies, surrounded by lunar landscapes and figures carved by erosion into the rocks and volcanic lava, and the colours of the walls with their intermixed geological strata. It is one of the most beautiful, the most thrilling, the most interesting rivers of the world.

Country          Peru

Duration        11 Days/ 10 Nights

Dates              Trips run from April to November

Rating             Demanding. Class V

Price                $4444



COLCA RIVER
11 DAYS / 10 NIGHTS
DAY 1- ARRIVAL TO LIMA
We meet you on your arrival in Lima and transfer you to a comfortable hotel for overnight.
DAY 2- AREQUIPA/CITY TOUR
In the morning fly to Arequipa. Transfer to our camping place "El Lago" and welcome with a "Pisco Sour",
and an orientation meeting. We tour the city in the afternoon, we visit some interesting monuments as a 17
th century cloister convent (Santa Catalina) and others. (B)
DAY3- AREQUIPA/HUAMBO
Early departure in our private vehicle. From the canyon near Chivay and Cabanaconde, there are fantastic
panoramas of snow peaks to enjoy. We encounter alpacas, llamas and sheep all along the way, vicuñas in
the Aguada Blanca Reserve and sometimes even little vizcachas.
At lunch we arrive to the picturesque Chivay town with interesting farming terraces. We continue along
deep valleys and Indian communities to reach the lookout point "Cruz del Condor" (12oo meters above the
riverbed), and have our first glance of the deep Colca Canyon, and contemplate the silent glide of the
condors.
In late afternoon we arrive to Huambo and camp. (BLD)
ITINERARY
DAY 4- HUAMBO/HACIENDA CANCO
In Huambo (3,380 masl) through the valley of Huambo River which
is very picturesque with deep canyons and strange figures in the
volcanic lava. We camp by the river shore. (BLD)
DAY 5- COLCA RIVER
After breakfast, we follow up the river an old Inca road to visit the
most beautiful cascades of the whole canyon, called "Juan
Pablo II Cascades".We get into the canyon and have our first
contact with the river , from the left bank the Huambo River falls
in from a 10mt cascade, and further down on the right the
Mamacocha River with its turquoise and warm waters enters.
Very exiting day in this colorful canyon. Class V rapids (Possible
portages). Camp. (BLD).
DAY 6- COLCA RIVER
The speed of the current makes it possible to navigate swiftly,
maneuvering easily between the large boulders in the riverbed.
We find thermal springs, that fall into the Colca from more than 10
meters up and create beautifully shaped and colors stalactites.
The Jasmin River flows into the Colca through a lovely canyon
that meets the Colca’s on the left. Many class III-IV-V rapids,
that makes it an intense day. (BLD)
DAY 7- COLCA RIVER
Canyon with piles of sand and rocks in the curves. We find a
cascade several hundred meters high called the "Condor’s
Shower", where condors are abundant. New and very different
rock formations on the canyon walls. Canyon gets narrow, and
the vertical walls are several hundred meters high. We
challenge the famous "Rapid of the Peruvians". (BLD)
DAY 8- COLCA RIVER (CHOCOLATE CANYON)
 Entrance to another canyon, rocky formation in all shades of chocolate. This is the highest part of the whole
Colca Canyon, the right wall is more than 4ooo meters higher than the level of the river and left one more
than 3ooo mt. Many rapids class IV-V. Lots of action. (BLD)
DAY 9- COLCA RIVER (REPARAZ CANYON)
 Canyon with totally vertical walls. River running very fast in a rock channel 20-30 meters wide.
 The banks are covered with dry rocks from the ravines. Unforgettable day. Tonight we enjoy a warm fire
under the stars. (BLD)
DAY 10- COLCA RIVER (POLE’S CANYON)/AREQUIPA
 Last canyon of the river. We get to the most difficult rapid of the trip. (At Km. 42 from Canco, 120 mt. long
and with a 12 mt. drop). Then the canyon narrows again and the river flows smoothly. Suddenly the walls
open out and the river enters a wide canyon with sloping walls. The Colca enters a valley, changing its name
to Majes. At our takeout point the vehicle will be waiting to take us back to a comfortable hotel in Arequipa.
Farewell dinner. (BL)
DAYS 11/12- LIMA/HOME/CUZCO EXTENSION
 Fly back to Lima, you enjoy a day on your own, with plenty of time for shopping, relaxing and celebrating.
Next day transfer to the airport for your flight home. (B)
INCLUDES:
All transfers
All meals (as indicated) B:Breakfast
L::Lunch D:Dinner
All Transfers on scheduled, arrival
and departure days
Rafting and camping equipment
Double occupancy tents and hotel
Professional Guides
Wranglers
NOT INCLUDED:
International Airfare
Airport Taxes
Sleeping bag and pad
Personal Gear
Personal expenses
Gratitudes for guides
