Cotahuasi
​

At the top of the Earth, in a place close to heaven in the domains of condor, live in magical Idyll the deepest and colossal canyon and the mighty Silver River falling from immense glaciers. 

Born as tear in small streams of life, bathing in his way many small surrounding villages, forming a fertile valley that extends like a green carpet throughout numerous villages
The Cotahuasi River is located in southern Peru and is renowned for being one of the deepest canyons in the world. It offers breathtaking scenery, ancient Inca ruins, and thrilling whitewater rafting opportunities. The river flows through a remote and rugged landscape, making it a prime destination for adventurers seeking a unique and challenging experience. The surrounding area is rich in history and culture, with traditional villages and archaeological sites that provide a glimpse into Peru's past.

Cotahuasi River
﻿

Explore the living past while thundering down one of the wildest rivers in the world!


Join us for a 14 mile hike on a acient Inca Trail deep into the earth, then enjoy the adrenaline rush during a 6 day class V raft trip down a steep river through a gorgeous canyon.


If you are looking a real adventure and trou expedition this is it! Pura Vida Expeditions run the first descent of the Cotahuasi.
This river features some of the most continuous runnable whitewater on earth. Outside magazine covered the trip for their December 2001 issue.

Country          Peru

Duration        11 Days/ 10 Nights

Dates             Trips run from March to November

Rating            Demanding. Class V

Price              $4444




COTAHUASI RIVER
11 DAYS / 10 NIGHTS
DAY 1 - Arrive in Lima, Peru and take a connecting flight to Arequipa. Explore this beautiful town hewn out of
white stone; spend your first night at the Hotel Del Lago.
DAY 2 - Afternoon departure. Start drive to Cotahuasi canyon. We drive through many small Peruvian
villages and pass through beautiful countryside. We eat dinner in the town of Aplao - 3 hours from
Arequipa. Camp at a developed campsite in the Colca valley.
DAY 3 - We take a 7 hour journey by road to Cotahuasi. We go over a 15,500 foot pass before dropping
down to the village of Cotahuasi. Along the way we get incredible views of mountain Coropuna (21,000
ft) - Cotahuasi is a remote high Andean village far removed from everyday crowded Peruvian life.
You will sense that you have discovered Shangri La when walking into this tranquil and clean village .
Explore the narrow streets and the masonry work obviously descended from the Incan culture - hot
springs - and dinner. Stay at La Sipia Inn.
ITINERARY
DAY 4 - The mules get loaded with our personal gear and then
we start our 10 hour hike around the Sipia Falls into the
canyon. We follow ancient Inca trails 3000 feet above the
river level and then descend to the start of our river journey.
This hike is one of the highlights of the trip. The views from
the trail are dramatic and the trail is an engineering wonder.
Our hike ends at a footbridge called Valinga.
DAY 5 through DAY 10 - The next 6 days will be spent rafting
through the Cotahuasi canyon. This canyon is twice as
deep as the Grand Canyon and, according to the Peruvian
government, it is the deepest canyon in the world. Another
selling point for the Cotahuasi are the Inca ruins scattered
throughout the canyon, some of which are yet to be
explored.
Aside from the Archeology treasures, you'll enjoy more than
a 100 miles of continuous class 4 whitewater, estimated
1500 CFS. The river flows 221 miles, from 12,000 feet up in
the Andes to the Pacific Ocean. We will encounter three
class 5 rapids and a few rapids that we may have to line the
boats around.
Each night we will camp on Inca terraces and explore the
ruins. But please remember that proper etiquette regarding
archaeological sites is the same as all of nature: Take
nothing but pictures, leave nothing but footprints.
DAY 10 - The Pacific Ocean breeze becomes prevalent and we
know our take-out is getting close. We reach the vans, load
up, and drive 2 hours to the nearest big town and have a
nice sit down meal at a restaurant before driving another 2
hours back to Arequipa. Hotel del Lago.
DAY 11 - Leave Arequipa, fly to Lima, then back home. Or
on to your next adventure!
INCLUDES:
All transfers
All meals (as indicated) B:Breakfast
L::Lunch D:Dinner
Rafting and camping equipment
Double occupancy tents
Professional Guides.
Hotel in Arequipa.
Wranglers
NOT INCLUDED:
International Airfare
Airport Taxes
Sleeping bag and pad
Personal Gear
Personal expenses
tips for guides
