Futaleufú
​

Futaleufu is a quaint village nestled amidst the Andes Mountains, 350 meters above sea level and 10 kms from the Argentina border, that influenced the customs and vocabulary over the course of the years.

The Futaleufu River is fed by the lakes of Larches National Park in the province of Chubut, Argentina, crosses the Andes to Chile and empties into the lake Yelcho.

Known for its peace and beautiful scenery, the turquoise of the river contrasts harmoniously with their green forests, giving his famous slogan "A LANDSCAPE PAINTING BY HANDS OF GOD."


Alternating between granite cliffs, native woods, rivers and beautiful natural landscapes, Futaleufu river pours dramatically through the most spectacular and challenging commercially run class V river canyon in the world. The calm stretches afford the chance to enjoy sometimes swimming and fishing in this canyon azure water.

 

Security is our main concern.

 

People who are looking for strong adventure, will find in this river one that will exceed their expectation.

 

 FUTALEUFU: "A landscape painted by the hand of God"


 Country          Chile

Duration         7 Days/ 6 Nights

Dates              Trips run from December to March

Rating             Demanding. Class V

Price                3333

Sample Itinerary

FUTALEUFÚ RIVER
7 DAYS / 6 NIGHTS
DAY 1: CHAITEN
A bus will be waiting for us to transfer the group through Carretera Austral, to the town of Futaleufu near
the border to Argentina. The trip is spectacular, crossing the jungle with a view of the white Michimavida
Volcano on the back. The road continuous along the fabulous Yelcho Lake one of the most awesome lakes
in Chile, of emerald green waters surrounded by steep snow capped mountains. We cross through one of
the most beautiful landscapes of Chile, along the Futaleufu River. In the afternoon we arrive to our base
camp. (D)
DAY 2: FUTALEUFU RIVER
Today our adventure starts in this remote region. We get the equipment ready and after a safety briefing we
have our first contact with the river. On the morning we enjoy exiting rapids and calm water. Colorful birds
and snow mountains witness our challenges with the famous "Pillow" and the giant wave called the "Wall" in
Mundaca rapid. (BLD)
DAY 3: FUTALEUFU RIVER
Exciting day as all. At noon will confront the powerfull "Terminator" and have lunch in a isolited beach. At the
end of the day will meet three hugs waves, the "Himalayas". We will enjoy a delicious dinner around a nice
fire under the stars. (BLD)
ITINERARY
DAY 4: LEISURE DAY
Lay over day, today we will have a deserved brake day,
and have the oportunity to enjoy horse back riding, fly
fishing or mountaineering.
In the evening we will enjoy a delicious typical home
cooked meal at our base camp. You can also enjoy out
natural hot-tub under the starlight (BLD)
DAY 5: FUTALEUFU RIVER (INFIERNO CANYON)
Today we start with the big rapids, extremely difficult day.
Big tributaries will join the river turning into a huge river.
Hard action awaits for us we enter the Infierno Canyon.
Rapids of different grades of difficulty, depending of the
amount of water, we run the legendary rapids class V+,
like "Zeta" and "Trono", extremely technical. Camp by the
Azul River (base camp), from we can enjoy a spectacular
view of "Las Monjitas Peaks" (BLD)
DAY 6: FUTALEUFU RIVER/CHAITEN
Raft from Rio Azul, all the way to the take out below "Casa
de Piedras”. We will have a farewell dinner, and enjoy our
memories of great experiences on this unforgettable
adventure. (BLD)
Day 7: CHAITEN/PUERTO MONTT/SANTIAGO
We will travel to Chaiten early morning after having
breakfast in our place. You will have the morning free to
tour around the city, an on the afternoon we take the plain
back to Puerto Montt, for our connection to Santiago. (B)


INCLUDES:
Bus: Chaiten/Futaleufu/Chaiten
All transfers
All meals (as indicated) B:Breakfast L::Lunch
D:Dinner
Rafting and camping equipment
Double occupancy hotel or tent
Professional Guides, Safety Kayakers and more.


NOT INCLUDED:
Airfares
Airport Taxes
Sleeping bag and pad
Personal Gear
Personal expenses (laundry, telephone)
Gratuities for guides.
NOTE: We offer
optional activities,
such as lake kayak,
alternative treks,
multiday horseback
ridding trips and
visits to the local
farms with different
experiences. 