Tambopata National Reserve harbors some of the wildest, least impacted habitats in the world. In this one million plus hectare protected area, rainforests and tropical savannahs meet in a land where roads have never existed and rivers are the only means of accessing its dense forests and bird-filled marshes. This huge wilderness gets its name from the Ese-Eja words for “Tambopata” (Bahuaja) and “Heath” (Sonene). 

Buffered by the 274,690 hectare Tambopata National Reserve, the deep, wildlife-filled jungles are rarely visited by people. In fact, very little access is actually given to the national park itself to keep it preserved as a true, Amazonian wilderness.


Located in the National Reserve Tambopata-Candamo, we believe that this exceeds the expectation of a wild and remote river that offers an exciting whitewater adventure in the virgin Tropical Rainforest of the Peruvian Amazon.

 

Great variety of tropical plants and animal species abound on this remote and unspoiled area to which the river is the only way of access. It has the greatest diversity of wildlife: more than 570 species of birds, 1200 butterfly species and many animal groups, like the howler monkey, tapir, capibaras, macaws, giant otters, black and white caiman, ocelot, and magestic jaguar. All these, has forced the Peruvian Goverment to protect this area and created the National Reserve.

 

We journey across the high plateau of the Andes through very typical Indian Villages and raft immerse in the heart of wilderness with no contact with civilization. We witness the upper reaches of the Amazon watershed from the snows of the Andean summits to the tropical rainforest, and admire from llamas and alpacas in the highlands to thounsands of colorful macaws at the "Colpa" in the low jungle.

Country          Peru

Duration        9 Days/ 8 Nights

Dates             Trips run from May to October

Rating            Demanding. Class III-IV

Price               $3333


Located in the Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve, we believe this exceeds expectations of a
wild and remote river that oers an exciting whitewater adventure in the pristine rainforest of the
Peruvian Amazon.
A great variety of tropical plant and animal species abound in this remote and unspoiled area to
which the river is the only access route. It has the greatest diversity of wildlife: more than five hundred
twenty species of birds, one thousand two hundred species of butterflies and many groups of
animals, such as the howler monkey, tapir, capybaras, macaws, giant otters, black and white caiman,
ocelot and the majestic jaguar. All this has forced the Peruvian Government to protect this area and
create this National Reserve.
Our expedition begins in Cusco, the heart of the Inca Empire. We will travel through the high plateau
of the Andes to enter one of the last uninhabited forests in the world, with twenty thousand plant
species, thousand species of birds, hundreds of mammals, reptiles and fish. We will be floating for
seven days, encountering exciting class III and IV rapids.
We will sail approximately three hundred kilometers through the upper part of the Tambopata River
to the Madre de Dios River, which are important tributaries of the great Amazon River.
We will have the opportunity to camp in front of the largest macaw clay lick in South America before
hopping on a motor boat to finally reach the city of Puerto Maldonado where we will spend the night
at a hotel and end our excursion with a fun farewell dinner.
We will witness the upper reaches of the Amazon basin from the snows of the Andean peaks to the
tropical jungle, and we will delight ourselves with llamas and alpacas in the highlands, and thousands
of colorful macaws in the "Colpa" in the low jungle.

NATIONAL PARK BAHUAJA-SONENE

· ITINERARY ·

Day 1 · Saturday 18th
Bus

Day 2 · Sunday 19th
Rafting on the
Tambopata river

Day 3 · Monday 20th
Rafting in the upper
Tambopata canyon

Days 4 & 5 · Tuesday 21st
and Wednesday 22nd
Sailing on the
Tambopata River
Day 6 · Thursday 23rd
Colpa Colorado

Day 7 · Friday 24th
Chuncho Colpa

Day 8 · Saturday 25th
Motor boat

Day 9 · Sunday 26th
Flights

We will leave Cusco at dawn to cross the highlands aboard a private
bus and travel through a 4,800 meter passage to finally descend
towards the jungle where we will spend the night at the ocial
entrance of the park: Putina Punku.
We will arrive to the town of Curva Alegre and before we start
guides will give an orientation briefing and we will prepare all the
rafting equipment. We will enjoy class II and III rapids this day!!
As we leave behind contact with civilization, we may see the last
fruit plantations or gold mining activities. The river marks the border
between two countries, Peru and Bolivia, Bahuaja-Sonene and
Madidi respectively.
We will camp on a solitary and remote beach.
Action day !! After a healthy breakfast, we will challenge exciting
class III - IV rapids, among exuberant jungle vegetation, where we
will take walks to explore the wonders of the Amazon and swim
under pristine waterfalls until we reach our camp.
As the days go by, we will leave the mountain range and rapids
behind, going deeper and deeper into lush vegetation, home to
dierent species such as monkeys, capybaras, tapirs, hundreds of
birds, giant river otters and jaguars.
Today we will traspasa the limit of the Bahuaja Sonene National Park
and entered the Tambopata Candamo National Reserve to get to
sleep in front of Colpa Colorado. We camp at a relaxing beach from
where we can take hikes on trails to explore more.
Before breakfast, at first light, we will take a short walk to the "Colpa
of the Guacamayos" (Macaw Lick), the largest known Macaw Lick
where on a normal day, hundreds of Macaws and other parrots
come in the morning to lick the salty rich clay. This is one of the
greatest birding spectacles in the world and a unique experience for
photographers.
After a good day of paddling in very calm waters we will arrive at
Colpa Chuncho.
We will wake up in front of the Chuncho Colpa among macaws, and
after finishing packing and loading our rafting equipment to the
motor boat, we will set out on a meandering river for 6 hours until
we reach Puerto Maldonado City, found by rubber collectors,
goldminers, and timber and oil explorators, where we will spend the
night at a hotel.
Flight back to Cusco or Lima.